How did all of these packages get there?
How is a package born?
And that is what we're gonna do right now,
is we are going to birth a new package,
bring out of nothingness
an npm package into existence.
We're not gonna publish
it to the interwebs for
everyone to see the amazing three lines of
JavaScript of node that we wrote [LAUGH].
But just to get used to what is
an npm package, we're gonna do this.
So we're gonna make a new directory, and
you don't have to do
this at the command line.
You can also do this in your file explorer
or your finder or whatever it is.
We're gonna make a directory.
You can call it whatever you want.
I very creatively called it where am I.
And for some reason there is
a convention to use hyphens in the name
of packages if we notice, [LAUGH] but
I'm honestly not sure if that's enforced
or just really a cultural thing.
But then we also tend to use camel
case for stuff in JavaScript a lot.
So it's all over the place, but
we're going to create a new directory.
We're going to move our beautiful node
script that tells us where we are into
that directory.
Again, you can do this graphically,
whatever.
And then we're going to move into that
directory, change directories in there,
and run the command npm init.
So now that I have set all of that,
let me do it [LAUGH], okay?
Did I already have, yes, okay?
So I've already got a where am I?
And so if we run no, you know what?
Start a new.
Okay, so if we run,
we make a directory.
This is not relevant, but whatever.
We make our new directory.
Where am I?
We go into it.
We copy.
And now is where the fun begins.
We run npm init and
a whole bunch of stuff comes out.
So it is helpfully telling us that
essentially npm init is a command we can
use to start a fresh new npm project.
Yeah, package, and what this is going to
do is actually in the end pretty simple.
But it is helpful, especially
if we're new to npm packages and
know ecosystem and everything,
to know what's going on.
So let's go through it.
It's gonna ask me for a name.
Sure, the default is fine.
Version.
Okay, I'm not gonna publish this.
A very helpful program is super helpful
[LAUGH] tells you which dir you're in.
Okay, so I'm gonna give it a description,
which were all those things
we saw on the npm page.
An entry point is gonna be basically
what Is the script that you want
me to run when somebody
tries to run your package.
So, there's only one file in here.
Test command is something
we'll get to in a second.
I'm just gonna leave it blank.
There's no git repository for this yet.
I'm not gonna bother with the keywords.
The author is me, but
we would put something thing
[LAUGH] more useful in there.
And we would think about what license we
want if we're developing open source.
And now, npm is asking us all right,
this is what you said.
Does that look correct?
And if I say yes.
Nothing happens.
No, something did happen, and what
happened is what it just told me it was
about to do,
it wrote a file called package.json.
And this little JSON file, which again,
JSON is JavaScript Object Notation.
It's just a bunch of keys and
a bunch of values.
And that is what a npm package essentially
is defined by is its package.json.
This is like a manifest for
what is this package doing?
What can you do with it?
Where does its code live?
Who is it by?
What version?
Is it all of this stuff,
which then npm and all of the information,
all the metadata that we saw on the npm
website is using to understand this
as a usable, wrapped up with
a little bow JavaScript program.
All right, so this is review for those
of us who've been working with No js for
a while, but what we now have, if I look
in my directory, is I have two files.
So exciting.
The package.json, that it just
wrote with all of these keys and
values that look exactly the same as my
command line prompts that I filled out.
And the only thing that's
interesting here is
that when it asked me
about that test command,
it was asking me for
a script as we call in here,
that would be what happens
when I run the test script.
Which is defined just in this
JSON file by a string called test
with some other string of commands
that I want to come after node at
that at the command line or
anything else like echoing stuff.
And this is where we end up
doing a lot of our developer
workflow stuff is some tools,
and also ourselves.
We'll write little scripts for ourselves
that make those repetitive tasks and
those really long commands, and
lots of flags and stuff easier for
us to run from within node.
So we'll look at some other options for
that later.
But the way that these scripts work
is if I now run well, okay, so
the way that the package now works is
that I could run the where am I file
directly like we did before, but
I can also run this as a program.
So, dot representing
the current directory.
Node now thanks to its buddy MBM knows,
thanks to my entry point or
main script here.
If I'm just running this whole package,
what am I running and
that's gonna be the same code as if I run
node whereAmI.js directly in this case.
But in a more complex project, there might
be an entry point that then does a whole
bunch of other stuff and
figures out things, and it looks
at different values of the process and bla
bla and doesn't just print out a string.
But still, this is the basic idea.
Now about these scripts,
how do I run that?
If I do node test, is it that?
Module not found.
No, that didn't work.
So this is looking for something like a
file called test, and that's not a thing.
This test word is literally just
a definition of a key with a value
in this JSON file.
And so there's a little bit of
a different ergonomic thing for
this, which is that we run npm run.
And then the name of the script
that is within the package.json
that is in the place where
I am currently running npm.
Let's just see what that means.
So if I run npm run tests,
now this is telling me which
package is actually I'm
executing a script from,
this is, where am I version 1.0.0.0, and
version 0.0 will probably
be more appropriate.
And it's the which script I'm running.
It's called test.
What is the actual value of that script?
Well, it was this command
to basically print error
no test specified to the console and
then exit.
And that is exactly
what it did after that.
So, this is just about the most
basic script we could do, and
it's important to note that like
this echo thing, all right?
We're not in JavaScript land.
We're talking about, in this shell,
executing as if I had typed it
right here at the command line.
Wait, hello, so basically there is
a difference between running
a JavaScript script that may or
may not be exposed as the entry point or
the main scripter of your package and
a package script.
We could think of it, which is essentially
useful for doing things that we,
as the developer, will need to do while
we're working on or in this package.
It's not usually something that the end
user is gonna be worried about.
It's things related to
our developer workflow.
So that's why test is a very common one.
And in the ideal JavaScript world,
we would not just be logging like,
you forgot to write tests to the console.
We would be, to the terminal rather,
we would be running a test
suite that actually tests that our
code does what it says it's gonna do.
Which, if I had done,
might have caught many of the errors
that we have been learning so much from.
So good that I didn't do that.
But so this is where we're starting
to get into the world of like,
now we're out of writing JavaScript and
we're into like dealing with
JavaScript packages and tooling.
And so we're gonna look at some other ways
that these scripts come into use often,
but things like npm run test are very
common in a lot of projects.
And a lot of the time if you
are looking at it a complex code base,
and there will be, for example,
a script to build it for yourself or
a script to run a different
version of it or things like that.
So there can be whatever script you want.
It's arbitrarily defined
by the package creator, and
it's really just key values,
string in your JSON.
So that's the magic.
That is all of the magic, basically.
Now, there's some more magic
going on under the hood.
And we're gonna take advantage
of some of that magic in a bit.
So yes, so we've seen this package JSON,
I guess it is helpful to
have a little coloration.
And this is basically whatever
words we define as keys and
that script file we can
then put after npm run.